Author: Jose Perez
Date: 07/02/2024

Shorten Production Cycles:
Siloed development and operations teams extend the production cycle unnecessarily. It becomes harder for both teams to collaborate on the processes required to get the software operational. Close collaboration through the elimination of silos speeds up innovation and development.

Increase Deployment Success Rates:
Programming errors is one of the leading reasons why a deployment fails. The frequent release of code occasioned with the DevOps approach ensures problem detection at an earlier stage. With dev and ops teams working together, recovery time is a lot shorter.

Improved Collaboration and Communication:
DevOps has revolutionized software development culture. This is because when all stakeholder teams take part in the development process, they focus on a common goal instead of working with different objectives. More synergy improves communication. Better communication leads to seamless development cycles, quick error discovery/resolution, and faster route to market.

Increased Efficiency Through Automation:
Continuous integration reduces manual processes in developing and testing. Specific tasks in the development process cannot be automated. DevOps focusses the developers’ attention on those tasks, leaving the other tasks to tools that can accelerate development.

Increase Product Quality:
The DevOps process builds quality into the development process, thereby reducing instances of unplanned work. A focus on security during the designing and development stage minimizes the need to remedy security issues later on, thus saving time and freeing more resources to other work. Besides, every member of the team is responsible for quality and security; this collective responsibility ensures team accountability for the final product.

Optimizes the Entire Business:
It forces organizations to "optimize for the whole system," not just IT siloes, to improve the business as a whole. In other words, be more adaptive and data-driven for alignment with customer and business needs.
